# Neural Networks 2020
Project repository for the course of Neural Networks, Sapienza University of Rome.

## Analysis and Comparison of Deep Learning Methods for Jazz Music Generation.

This repository contains notebooks about the implementation of the WaveNet, Simplified_WaveNet and LSTMNet. In addition, it contains libraries of methods for data pre and post processsing, datasets analysis, a notebook to use Magenta models and a novel dataset of jazz MIDI files.


## Contents:

- [Structure](#structure)
- [Execution](#execution)
- [References](#references)
- [Team Members](#team-members)

## Structure
- **audio_samples** folder contains audio tracks generated by the five models and extracted from the dataset
- **novel_dataset** is a novel dataset of well-known jazz songs in MIDI extension 
- **scripts** folder contains all the scripts for pre&post processing, datasets analysis and the notebooks for the networks
- **report.pdf** is the report for this project

## Execution

### WaveNet

Run the `scripts/WaveNet_Notebook.ipynb` notebook.

### Simplyfied_WaveNet

Run the `scripts/Simplified_WaveNet_Notebook.ipynb` notebook.
 
 ### LSTMNet
 
Run the `scripts/LSTMNet_Notebook.ipynb` notebook.

### GRUNet

### Attention_RNN

1. Clone the repository in https://github.com/magenta/magenta.git
2. Move the `Attention_RNN_Notebook.ipynb` in the same directory
3. Run the notebook

## References
- A. Van Den Oord, S. Dieleman, H. Zen, K. Simonyan, O. Vinyals, A. Graves, N. Kalchbrenner, A. Senior, K. Kavukcuoglu. *WaveNet: A Generative Model for Raw Audio.* Proc. 9th ISCA Speech Synthesis Workshop, 2016, pp. 125-125.
- A. Géron. *Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras and TensorFlow.* 2019, O’Reilly, 2nd Edition, pp. 521-523.
- J. M. Simões, P. L. Machado, A. C. Rodrigues. *Deep Learning for Expressive Music Generation.* In Proceedings of the 9th International Conference on Digital and Interactive Arts (ARTECH 2019). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 14, 1–9. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/3359852.3359898.
- https://github.com/haryoa/note_music_generator
- https://github.com/magenta/magenta/tree/master/magenta/models/melody_rnn
- https://www.kaggle.com/saikayala/jazz-ml-ready-midi
- A. Huang, R. Wu. *Deep Learning for Music.* 2016, arxiv: http://arxiv.org/abs/1606.04930.
- H. W. Dong, W. Y. Hsiao, L. C. Yang, Y. H. Yang. *MuseGAN: Multi-Track Sequential Generative Adversarial Networks for Symbolic Music Generation and Accompaniment.* In Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2018.
- H. Hung, C. Wang, Y. Yang and H. Wang, *Improving Automatic Jazz Melody Generation by Transfer Learning Techniques.*, 2019 Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association Annual Summit and Conference (APSIPA ASC), Lanzhou, China, 2019, pp. 339-346, doi: 10.1109/APSIPAASC47483.2019.9023224.

## Team members
- Ratini Riccardo, 1656801.
- Simionato Giada, 1822614.
